SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE
MEDICAL ONCOLOGY
NEW PATIENT
CONSULT DATE OF SERVICE 7/16/2013
REFERRING PHYSICIAN
Pamela Williams, ARNP for further evaluation and discussion of chemotherapy treatment options .
IDENTIFICATION
Mr. Bearden is a 63-year - old man who presents to clinic today with a recent diagnosis of an intermediate - grade myxofibrosarcoma of the left anterior deltoid .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS
Mr. Bearden attends this appointment with his wife .
Mr. Bearden has long history of multiple lipomas , with many prior excisions and benign pathology .
Please see the oncologic chronology below for details regarding hos this mass was discovered .
Since his biopsy , Mr. Bearden notes a significant reduction in the amount of pain in the left shoulder , and essentially has returned to full normal activities with that arm despite the ongoing presence of an approximately 3x3 cm mass on his left anterior shoulder .
We discussed with him his pathology and what this means in terms of risk of local and distant recurrence and likely treatment plan .
We discussed that we will need to complete his staging to determine the best approach .
Both he and his wife express significant concern regarding chemotherapy , its logistics and short and long term side effects . She also expresses concern about his ability to maintain use of the left arm as he uses
it to play guitar nearly daily and this both a source of pleasure and livelihood .
We also discussed his risk using the MSKCC prognostic nomogram .
His risk of recurrence and death from this assuming local disease is less than 20% over the next 12 or more years .
He is reassured by this and believes he would not want neo or adjuvant chemotherapy if this is local disease .
We discussed with him clinical trials and the importance of checking in with a multidisciplinary sarcoma team in the future should he have any recurrences or new concerns or problems .
He thinks his health is good and reports being active daily .
He avoids stairs but could take a few if necessary .
He denies headaches , recent changes in vision or hearing , chest pain , palpitations , shortness of breath , abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting , fevers or chills , nightsweats , diarrhea or constipation , dysuria or hematuria , bruising , bleeding , rash , bone pain or other nodules aside from his known lipomas .
He does report feeling sadness , anxiety and helplessness but denies insomnia .
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS
A complete review of systems was performed and was negative in detail except as documented above .